Project Title: Login and registration Project using Flask framework and MySQL Workbench. Type of Application (Category): Web application. Introduction: A framework is a code library that makes a developer’s life easier when building web applications by providing reusable code for common operations. There are a number of frameworks for Python, including Flask, Tornado, Pyramid, and Django. Flask is a lightweight web application framework. It is classified as a micro-framework because it does not require particular tools or libraries. Pre-requisite: Knowledge of Python, MySQL Workbench and basics of Flask Framework. Python and MySQL Workbench should be installed in the system. Visual studio code or Spyder or any code editor to work on the application. Technologies used in the project: Flask framework, MySQL Workbench. Implementation of the Project: 

(1) Creating Environment 

    Step-1: Create an environment. Create a project folder and a venv folder within.

    py -3 -m venv venv

	Step-2: Activate the environment.

	venv\Scripts\activate

	Step-3: Install Flask.
	
	pip install Flask

(2) MySQL Workbench 

	Step-1: Install MySQL workbench. Link to install :
	https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/ Know more about it : 
	https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/ 

	Step-2: Install ‘mysqlbd’ module in your venv.

	pip install flask-mysqldb

	Step-3: Open MySQL workbench. 

	Step-4: Write the following code. The above SQL statement will create our database db_sample with the table users.

 	Step-5: Execute the query.

(3) Creating Project

	Step-1: Create an empty folder ‘login’. 

 	Step-2: Now open your code editor and open this ‘login’ folder. 

 	Step-3: Create ‘main.py’ folder and write the code given below. 

 	Step-4: Create the folder ‘templates’. create the file ‘login.html’, ‘reg.html’, ‘home.html’,layout.html inside the ‘templates’ folder.

  	Step-5: Open ‘login.html’ file and write the code given below. In ‘login.html’, we have two fields i.e. email and password. When user enters correct username and password, it will route you to home page otherwise ‘Incorrect username/password’ is displayed

  	Step-6: Open ‘reg.html’ file and write the code given below. In ‘reg.html’, we have three fields i.e. username,password,email,gender,country. When user enters all the information, it stored the data in the database and ‘Registration successful’ is displayed.

  	Step-7: Open ‘home.html’ file and write the code given below. This page is displayed when login is successful and username is also displayed. The logout functionality is also included in this page. When user logs out, it moves to fresh login page again.  

  	Step-9: The project structure will look like this.

(4) Run the Project

  	Step-1: Run the server.

   	Step-2: Browse the URL ‘localhost:5000’. 

  	Step-3: The output web page will be displayed.

(5) Testing of the Application

    Step-1: If you are new user, go to sign up page and fill the details. 

    Step-2: After registration, go to login page. Enter your username and password and sign in. 

    Step-3: If your login is successful, you will be moved to home page and your.
